Hi, my name is Andrew, and I would like to tell you about machine learning.

in preparation for this presentation, I tried to answer a few questions for myself

What is machine learning?
How do we train machines?
How is this method different from others?
How can we use machine learning?

1. What is machine learning?

Look at these people, can you determine their age?

What is shown in these pictures cat or dog?

These tasks are easy for carriers of natural intelligence. But it can be overwhelming for algorithms based on a programmed set of rules.
This is where machine learning comes to our rescue. 

Many people think they can compare the machine learning and neural networks, but this is not true.
Machine learning is one of the areas of artificial intelligence. Neural networks is a type of machine learning, popular, but there are others as well.
The main principle of machine learning is that machines receive data and trains on it.
Currently, it is the most promising business tool based on artificial intelligence.


The main tasks that machine learning solves:
Classification
Regression
Clustering
Association
Dimension reduction
 
2. How do machines learn?

Let's use a simplified example to try to understand how machine learning is used in practice.

Imagine that our company sells destroyer-robots. We also have a website where we get feedback from users.
But we want to understand what people write about our product in social networks.

First of all, we'll need a training sample. This is the information on which our model will be trained.
For this role, ideally suitable comments from our site, and marks of our product, which users have left.
Each comment we denote as 'x'. And the rating given to our robots as 'y'.

Let's look at 2 comments for example:

Thank you very much! This is exactly what I was looking for, the quality is excellent! My neighbor will no longer bother me. The only negative is that it burned the floor of the area, with my house too.

This comment looks good for us. User Rating - 4 stars.


And another comment:

Terrible quality! It does not understand my orders, I advise you to avoid this manufacturer. I have got my money back, thanks for that!

This one is not good for us, the user have left 2 stars (y).

Now it is time to develop our model.
Our task is to make the model, which will be applid to comments x, and will return close as much as possible results to 'y';
Hard to find a formula to solve this problem. So we will have to simplify the task. Let's write a bag of words. This are the 1000 most important in our opinion words that can characterize the comment:

 1. very     (1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, ... 0)
 2. thanks    (0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, ... 0)
 3. excellent (0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, ... 0)
 4. avoid    (0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, ... 0) 
 5. terrible    (0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, ... 0)
 6. ...
 1000. negative    (0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, ... 1) 

Each word will have its own coding of 1000 numbers.Then we need to find these words in our comments and summarize the received encodings.
So each comment will characterize a set of 1000 numbers.
Then we should apply weights to our tags, and summarize them.
These weights are approximate, but they already reflect the logic of our model.
'Thank' and 'very' are going with plus, 'terrible' and 'negative' with minus.
At the output of our model, we get a positive or negative number. 
The more this number the more emotional the comment was on the input of our model

Loss function: 

But how do we know that weights with our tags are correct? Why does the word 'thanks' have a weight of 4 rather than 5?

The answer is, we do not know. The function will help us adjust the weight of the selectors correctly. 
It shows how the result of the work of our model deviated from the expected, and help us determine how effective the model is.
I will not delve into the mathematical aspects of the loss function, because we don't have much time.
But it's important to consider that each task requires a suitable loss function. And for specific tasks you need to create your own loss function.

The most popular loss functions:
Simple
Quadratic
Rectangular
Exponential(loss function with saturation)



Then we need apply learning function with our model.



The learning function should based on the result of the loss function, change the weights of tags in our model so that the model losses are minimal. Changing the model to reduce losses is the main task of machine learning.
There are many loss functions. Each one fits better in a specific situation, as well as a loss function. Unfortunately we do not have time to look at them.

So, the training data comes into our model, then the result of the model is estimated by the loss function, and then using the learning function we improve our model. This cycle must be repeated until we obtain sufficient accuracy of the model.
Increasing the volume of the training data and its accuracy, we will increase the  accuracy of our model.
Now we just need to apply our model to the comments from the social networks and find out what people think about us. 

Types of machine learning:

Supervised learning: In the example above, we used this approach. We customize our model so that its results matched with the results of the training data.
 
Unsupervised learning: there is no right answer in the training data. algorithms take a set of data that contains only inputs, and find structure in the data, like grouping or clustering of data points.

Reinforcement learning: The machine learns through a reward-based system.

Ensemble methods

Neural networks and deep learning

3. How does this method differ from others?

The model is already contained in the data

Not necessarily understand the data we are analyzing.
We can approximate complex dependencies and even models of systems without having any idea how they work.

The model can find dependencies which we even didn’t suspect. 

4. Application of machine learning:

Speech recognition
Handwriting recognition
Pattern recognition
Technical diagnostics
Medical Diagnostics
Fraud Detection
Spam detection
Document categorization
Stock technical analysis
Financial supervision
Credit scoring
Predicting customer care


The scope of machine learning applications is constantly expanding. Widespread informatization leads to the accumulation of huge amounts of data in science, industry, business, transport, and health care. The problems of forecasting, management and decision-making that arise in this case are often reduced to learning from precedents. Earlier, when there was no such data, these tasks were either not set at all or were solved by completely different methods.

Thanks fow wathing!